so welcome to
an occasional top cast there's been some
discussion
i have watched in some philosophy
communities recently about the interplay
between
fun and discipline these terms label
ideas that might seem to be in conflict
at times
my own personal experience of this is
right now
i have a lot of fun making my videos and
podcasts and the more fun i tend to have
the more i tend to speak so the longer
my videos and expositions
some might say rants go on for now some
might like my lengthy commentaries
and that's great indeed one motivation
for all of this material
if you go right back to episode one was
and it remains
for me to clarify in my own mind to
myself
what i really understand these ideas to
be and so these are my
interpretations they're not canon in any
way
and these are not necessarily endorsed
by those who created these ideas
this is my way of arranging some of
these ideas in my own mind
that i thought might be useful to anyone
coming to this world view for the first
time
but i emphasize this is a personal take
on these things
other knowledgeable people especially
more knowledgeable
about any of this might very well
distill out some other
more significant takeaways which is to
say they might make different choices
but i think what i have chosen here from
papa and deutsch
in these first two episodes do provide
something of an introduction to the
philosophy in poppa's case
and the world view in deutsches in other
words
this is for anyone coming new to what
might be called
critical rationalism or the popeyrian
tradition
and then in what i see as david deutch's
advances in that
philosophical lineage so my fun today is
about doing
some new podcasts but the discipline
comes in in meeting some
arbitrary criteria to some extent that
i'm setting for myself
namely that these will be brief between
five and ten minutes
and absolutely no more than that because
if you want an introduction
i guess you want an introduction not a
deep dive that's what my other
extended episodes and podcasts are for
so this should be fun if i remain
disciplined about it i intend this
occasional series
to be a real distillation as i see it
and again
as i see it of the ideas of poppa and
deutsch and perhaps whoever else takes
my fancy perhaps a plato primer or a
descartes digest might come up in the
next few months
i'm recording this in october 2020 and
i'm now about to head into the recording
of chapter 15 of the beginning of
infinity
that's the 15th chapter out of 18.
so i'm very much aware that that project
is nearing its conclusion
next will be a similar series on the
fabric of reality
unless of course david should publish
other works in the interim which i
imagine would be one notable event that
could change my intended course
for now published essentially in
parallel with this introduction
are my first two introductions an
introduction to papa
which i'm calling my papa primer and an
introduction to deutsch
which i'm calling my deutsch digest i
hasten to add
that i am concentrating on the
philosophy obviously david deutch is a
physicist and there is worthwhile work
to do
in producing digestible summaries of his
discoveries in physics as well
but that is something i might say for
another time